# Setting the Class Path

URL: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/tools/unix/classpath.html

The class path is the path that the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) searches for classes and other resource files.

**The class search path (class path)** can be set using either the `-classpath` option when calling **a JDK tool** (**the preferred method**) or by setting the `CLASSPATH` environment variable. The `-classpath` option is **preferred** because you can set it individually for each application without affecting other applications and without other applications modifying its value.

```bash
sdkTool -classpath classpath1:classpath2...
```

- `sdkTool`: A command-line tool, such as java, javac, javadoc, or apt. For a listing, see [JDK Tools](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/tools/index.html)
- `classpath1:classpath2`: Class paths to the `JAR`, `zip` or **class files**. Each class path should end with **a file name** or **directory** depending on what you are setting the class path to, as follows:
    - (1) For a `JAR` or `zip` file that contains class files, the class path ends with **the name of the zip or JAR file**.
    - (2) For **class files** in an **unnamed package**, the class path ends with **the directory** that contains the class files.
    - (3) For **class files** in a **named package**, the class path ends with **the directory that contains the root package**.

Multiple path entries are separated by **semicolons** with no spaces around in Windows and **colons** in Oracle Solaris.

## Class Path Wild Cards

Java `.class`文件有两种存在形式：

- (1) 以单独的`.class`文件存在
- (2) 以压缩包`JAR`的形式存在

要理解下面的内容，从两个角度出发：

- (1) `mydir/*`，搜索`mydir`目录下的所有jar文件，而不搜索class文件
- (2) `mydir`，搜索其目录下的所有class文件，而不搜索jar文件

**Class path entries** can contain **the base name wildcard character** (`*`), which is considered equivalent to specifying a list of all of the files in the directory with the extension `.jar` or `.JAR`. For example, the class path entry `mydir/*` specifies **all JAR files** in the directory named `mydir`. **A class path entry** consisting of `*` expands to **a list of all the jar files** in **the current directory**. Files are considered regardless of whether they are hidden (have names beginning with '`.`').

> 这段是说，classpath中带`*`，会搜索该目录下的所有jar文件。

**A class path entry that contains an asterisk (`*`)** does **not** match **class files**. To match both **classes** and **JAR** files in a single directory `mydir`, use either `mydir:mydir/*` or `mydir/*:mydir`. The order chosen determines whether the classes and resources in `mydir` are loaded before `JAR` files in `mydir` or vice versa.

> 这段是说，classpath中带`*`，但不会搜索class文件。

**Subdirectories** are **not** searched recursively. For example, `mydir/*` searches for JAR files only in `mydir`, not in `mydir/subdir1`, `mydir/subdir2`, and so on.

> 这段是说，classpath中带`*`，但不会递归搜索子目录。

**The order** in which **the JAR files** in a directory are **enumerated** in the expanded class path is **not specified** and may vary from platform to platform and even from moment to moment on the same machine. A well-constructed application should not depend upon any particular order. If a specific order is required, then the JAR files can be enumerated explicitly in the class path.

> 这段是说，classpath中jar文件的搜索顺序是不确定的。

**Expansion of wild cards is done early**, before the invocation of a program's main method, rather than late, during the class-loading process. **Each element of the input class path** that contains a **wildcard** is replaced by the (possibly empty) **sequence of elements** generated by enumerating the JAR files in the named directory. For example, if the directory `mydir` contains `a.jar`, `b.jar`, and `c.jar`, then the class path `mydir/*` is expanded into `mydir/a.jar:mydir/b.jar:mydir/c.jar`, and that string would be the value of the system property `java.class.path`.

The `CLASSPATH` environment variable is not treated any differently from the `-classpath` or `-cp` options. **Wild cards** are **honored** in all of these cases. However, class path **wild cards** are **not honored** in the `Class-Path` jar-manifest header.

