# ASM

## 何为ASM

An **assembly language**, often abbreviated `asm`, is any low-level programming language in which there is a very strong correspondence between the program's statements and the architecture's machine code instructions.

> 作者有话说：assembly language是一个low-level programming language。

Each **assembly language** is specific to a particular **computer architecture**. In contrast to **assembly languages**, most **high-level programming languages** are generally portable across multiple architectures but require `interpreting` or `compiling`.

> 作者有话说：讲述assembly language和high-level programming languages之间的差异。assembly language是依赖于特定的computer architecture，不能够进行移植。相比之下，high-level programming languages是能够在多个不同的computer architecture之间进行移植，但需要interpreting或者是compiling。

**Assembly language** may also be called `symbolic machine code`., since in its essence it is a symbolic language that maps bijectively(一一对应) to the **machine-code language** of the computer architecture. In fact, this is this reason that each assembly language is specific to only one architecture.

> 作者有话说：assembly language和machine-code language存在一一对应的关系。

从上面的几段描述中，可以将`high-level programming language`、`assembly language`和`machine code`三者的关系描述成下表。

| 层级   | 语言                              | 解读者           |
| ------ | --------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| 高级   | `high-level programming language` | 人               |
| 低级   | `assembly language`               | 人或程式（软件） |
| 物理级 | `machine code`                    | 机器（硬件）     |

> 作者有话说：我并没有系统的学习过computer architecture和assembly language，因此有些地方的理解可能是错误的。

从Java语言的角度来理解`asm`，大概可以描述成下表。

| 层级   | 语言                  | 解读者        |
| ------ | --------------------- | ------------- |
| 高级   | `Java`                | 人            |
| 低级   | `byte code`（字节码） | `JVM`（软件） |
| 物理级 | `machine code`        | 机器（硬件）  |

## 何为Java ASM


在Java

Sometimes I see the letters "asm" in the name file library jar.

For example, in the packages framework library.

SpringFramework  :  org.springframework.asm-x.y.z.M(a).jar 
Eclipse Link     :  org.eclipse.persistence.asm.jar

Both the libraries you mention are copies of **the ASM library**, which provides low-level bytecode manipulation capabilities (ASM -> assembly).

Spring and EclipseLink change the package names of ASM and repackage it for their internal use. This is to avoid conflicts in case a user of these libraries wants to use their own version of ASM. By having the renamed packages, both versions can happily coexist. The JDK does this as well - you can see that jdk.internal.org.objectweb.asm.util.ASMifier for example is part of the JDK. The 'jdk.internal' prefix is to avoid conflicts with other versions of ASM users might want to use.

