# Java security evolution and concepts, Part 3: Applet security

URL: https://www.javaworld.com/article/2076262/core-java/java-security-evolution-and-concepts--part-3--applet-security.html



## 1. The Software Development Kit (SDK) tools

The **three tools** dealing with security, available as part of the Java 2 SDK, are:

- `keytool` -- Manages keystores and certificates
- `jarsigner` -- Generates and verifies JAR signatures
- `policytool` -- Manages policy files via a GUI-based tool

We will frequently refer to **two system properties** based on the system used and where the requisite software is installed. They are:

- `${java.home}`: refers to the location where the JRE is installed
- `${user.home}`: refers to the user's home directory

All **three tools** use the `keystore`, **a repository** that stores **keys** and **certificates** for the installation. Entries are accessed by unique names referred to as aliases.

## keytool

`keytool` manages the **keystore** -- for example, it can:

- (1) Create public/private key pairs
- (2) Issue certificate requests (sent to the appropriate Certification Authority)
- (3) Import certificate replies (obtained from the Certification Authority you contacted)
- (4) Designate public keys belonging to other parties as trusted

`keytool` currently handles **X.509 certificates**, although other formats can be supported by adding the respective providers. The Java Secure Socket Extension (JSSE) 1.0.2, for example, adds limited support to `pkcs12`. Different formats can be specified via the `-storetype` option in the command line.

`keytool` allows users to specify any **key-pair generation** and **signature algorithm** supplied by any of the registered cryptographic service providers via the `-keyalg` and `-sigalg` command-line options, respectively. **The key size** can be specified via the `-keysize` option.

## jarsigner

The `jarsigner` tool accesses a **keystore** created and managed by `keytool`, when it needs to find the private key and its associated certificate chain to use for signing a jar file. 

Since **passwords** protect access to the **keystore** and to **private keys**, **only people who know the passwords** will be able to access **the key** and use it to **sign a jar file**. The `jarsigner` tool prompts for needed passwords.

| **Option**   | **Description**                                              |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `-storepass` | Specifies the required password to access the keystore during signing |
| `-keypass`   | Specifies the password used to protect the private key of the keystore alias entry |
| `-signedjar` | Specifies the name to be used for the signed jar file        |
| `-verify`    | Jar file verification                                        |
| `-verbose`   | Output extra information as to the progress of the jar signing or verification |
| `-certs`     | Used in conjunction with `-verify` and `-verbose` options, the output includes certificate information for each signer of the jar file |


## policytool

The `policytool` command creates and modifies **the external policy configuration files** that define the installation's security policy. This tool has **a graphical user interface**, with which you select buttons and other options rather than type in commands as you would with the other tools. The tool modifies a regular text policy file. 














