# Arrays VS Generics

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. Arrays are covariant, Generics are invariant](#1-arrays-are-covariant-generics-are-invariant)
- [2. Arrays are reified, Generics are erasured](#2-arrays-are-reified-generics-are-erasured)
- [3. Recap](#3-recap)

<!-- /TOC -->

Arrays differ from generic types in two important ways.

- First, arrays are covariant, generics are invariant.
- Second, arrays are reified, generics are erasured.

我的总结：Java分成四部分，Java Language, Class File, Java API, JVM。

按照这种划分方法的话，

- arrays are covariant, generics are invariant 应该是属于Java Language的部分，是Java语言所规定的。如果换成一个别的编程语言，可能就不是这么规定的了。
- arrays are reified, generics are erasured 应该是属于Class File的部分。在`.class`文件中，generics的一部分类型信息会被擦除，而arrays则要求“类型信息”能够完整保留下来。

当arrays和generics混合在一起使用的时候，就会引起一些很特殊的情况。换句话说，当有两个事物，这两个事物之间本来就有一些不同之处，如果把这两个事物混合在一起使用，有可能会出现一件事物弥补了另一件事物的不足之处，也有可能就会出现两个事物不协调的情况。当然，在这里我们强调的是两者“不协调”的情况。

## 1. Arrays are covariant, Generics are invariant

First, arrays are covariant. This scary-sounding word means simply that if `Sub` is a subtype of `Super`, then the array type `Sub[]` is a subtype of `Super[]`.

Generics, by contrast, are invariant: for any two distinct types `Type1` and `Type2`, `List<Type1>` is neither a subtype nor a
supertype of `List<Type2>`. You might think this means that generics are deficient, but arguably it is arrays that are deficient.

This code fragment is legal:

```java
// Fails at runtime!
Object[] objectArray = new Long[1];
objectArray[0] = "I don't fit in"; // Throws ArrayStoreException
```

but this one is not:

```java
// Won't compile!
List<Object> ol = new ArrayList<Long>(); // Incompatible types
ol.add("I don't fit in");
```

Either way you can’t put a `String` into a `Long` container, but with **an array** you find out that you’ve made a mistake at **runtime**; with **a list**, you find out at **compile time**. Of course you’d rather find out at **compile time**.

## 2. Arrays are reified, Generics are erasured

The second major difference between arrays and generics is that **arrays are reified**. This means that arrays know and enforce their element types at runtime. As noted above, if you try to store a `String` into an array of `Long` , you’ll get an `ArrayStoreException`. **Generics, by contrast, are implemented by erasure**. This means that they enforce their type constraints only at compile time and discard (or erase) their element type information at runtime. Erasure is what allows generic types to interoperate freely with legacy code that does not use generics.

## 3. Recap

Because of these fundamental differences, **arrays and generics do not mix well**. For example, it is illegal to create an array of a generic type, a parameterized type, or a type parameter. None of these array creation expressions are legal: `new List<E>[]`, `new List<String>[]`, `new E[]`. All will result in generic array creation errors at compile time.

Types such as `E`, `List<E>`, and `List<String>` are technically known as **non-reifiable types**. Intuitively speaking, a non-reifiable type is one whose runtime representation contains less information than its compile-time representation. The only parameterized types that are reifiable are unbounded wildcard types such as `List<?>` and `Map<?,?>`. It is legal, though infrequently useful, to create arrays of unbounded wildcard types.
