# Java MessageDigest

The Java `MessageDigest` class represents **a cryptographic hash function** which can calculate **a message digest** from **binary data**. When you receive some encrypted data you cannot see from the data itself **whether it was modified during transportation**. A message digest can help alleviate that problem.

To be able to **detect if the encrypted data has been modified** in transport, the sender can calculate **a message digest** from **the data** and send that along with the data. When you receive the encrypted data and message digest you can recalculate the message digest from the data and check if the message calculated digest matches the message digest received with the data. If the two message digests match **there is a probability** that the encrypted data **was not modified** during transport.

There are **a couple of conditions** that have to be met for **a message digest** to be useful as a modification detection mechanism. However, **the exact conditions** are part of **cryptographic theory**, so you will have to visit that theory to read how to use message digests correctly. This tutorial only explains how to use the Java Cryptography API representation of a message digest in the MessageDigest class.

## 1. Creating a MessageDigest Instance

To create a Java `MessageDigest` instance you call the static `getInstance()` method of the `MessageDigest` class. Here is an example of creating a `MessageDigest` instance:

```java
MessageDigest messageDigest = MessageDigest.getInstance("SHA-256");
```

**The text parameter** passed to the `getInstance()` method is the name of the concrete message digest algorithm to use.

### Message Digest Algorithms

The **Java Cryptography API** supports the following **message digest algorithms** (although your concrete cryptography provider might support more!):

Algorithm Name

- MD2
- MD5
- SHA-1
- SHA-256
- SHA-384
- SHA-512

**Not all** of these **message digest algorithms** are equally **secure**. At the time of writing it is **recommended** that you use **SHA-256** or **higher** to get the highest possible amount of security.


## 2. Calculate Message Digest

Once you have created a Java `MessageDigest` instance you can use it to calculate a **message digest** from **data**. If you have **a single block of data** to calculate **a message digest** from, use the `digest()` method. Here is **how calculating a message digest from a single block of data** looks:

```java
byte[] data1 = "0123456789".getBytes("UTF-8");

MessageDigest messageDigest = MessageDigest.getInstance("SHA-256");
byte[] digest = messageDigest.digest(data1);
```

If you have **multiple blocks of data** to include in the same message digest, call the `update()` method and finish off with a call to `digest()`. Here is **how calculating a message digest from multiple blocks of data** looks:

```java
byte[] data1 = "0123456789".getBytes("UTF-8");
byte[] data2 = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvxyz".getBytes("UTF-8");

MessageDigest messageDigest = MessageDigest.getInstance("SHA-256");
messageDigest.update(data1);
messageDigest.update(data2);

byte[] digest = messageDigest.digest();
```