# Java KeyPairGenerator

The Java `KeyPairGenerator` class (`java.security.KeyPairGenerator`) is used to generate **asymmetric encryption / decryption key pairs**. An asymmetric key pair consists of two keys. **The first key** is typically used to **encrypt data**. **The second key** which is used to **decrypt data** encrypted with the first key.

## 1. Public Key, Private Key Type Key Pairs

The most commonly known type of **asymmetric key pair** is **the public key, private key type of key pair**. **The private key** is used to **encrypt data**, and **the public key** can be used to **decrypt the data** again. Actually, you could also encrypt data using the public key and decrypt it using the private key.

The private key is normally kept secret, and the public key can be made publicly available. Thus, if Jack encrypts some data with his private key, everyone in possession of Jack's public key can decrypt it.

## 2. Creating a KeyPairGenerator Instance

To use the Java `KeyPairGenerator` you must first create a `KeyPairGenerator` instance. Creating a `KeyPairGenerator` instance is done by calling the method `getInstance()` method. Here is an example of creating a Java KeyPairGenerator instance:

```java
KeyPairGenerator keyPairGenerator = KeyPairGenerator.getInstance("RSA");
```

The `getInstance()` method takes **the name of the encryption algorithm** to generate the key pair for. In this example we use the name `RSA`.

## 3. Initializing the KeyPairGenerator

Depending on the algorithm the key pair is generated for, you may have to **initialize** the `KeyPairGenerator` instance. Initializing the `KeyPairGenerator` is done by calling its `initialize()` method. Here is an example of initializing a Java KeyPairGenerator instance:

```java
keyPairGenerator.initialize(2048);
```

This example initializes the KeyPairGenerator to generate keys of `2048` bits in size.

## 4. Generating a Key Pair

To generate a `KeyPair` with a `KeyPairGenerator` you call the `generateKeyPair()` method. Here is an example of generating a KeyPair with the KeyPairGenerator:

```java
KeyPair keyPair = keyPairGenerator.generateKeyPair();
```
