# Java CertificateFactory

The Java `CertificateFactory` class (`java.security.cert.CertificateFactory`) is capable of creating Java `Certificate` instances from **binary certificate encodings** like **X.509** (ASN.1 DER). To read more about the Java Certificate class, see the Java Certificate tutorial.

The Java `CertificateFactory` can also create `CertPath` instances. A `CertPath` is **a chain of certificates** where each certificate in the chain is signed by the next certificate in the chain. See the Java CertPath tutorial for more information about the CertPath class.


## 1. Creating a CertificateFactory Instance

Before you can create `Certificate` instances you must create a Java `CertificateFactory` instance. Here is an example of creating a CertificateFactory:

```java
CertificateFactory certificateFactory = CertificateFactory.getInstance("X.509");
```

This example creates a `CertificateFactory` instance capable of creating **X.509 certificate** instances (`X509Certificate` - a subclass of `Certificate`).

## 2. Creating a Certificate Instance

Once you have created a `CertificateFactory` instance you can start creating `Certificate` instances. You do so via the `generateCertificate()` method. Here is a generateCertificate() example:

```java
InputStream certificateInputStream = new FileInputStream("my-x509-certificate.crt");

Certificate certificate = certificateFactory.generateCertificate(certificateInputStream);
```

## 3. Creating a CertPath Instance

The Java `CertificateFactory` can also create a `CertPath` instance. You create a `CertPath` instance by calling the CertificateFactory `generateCertPath()` method. Here is a generateCertPath() example:

```java
InputStream certificateInputStream = new FileInputStream("my-x509-certificate-chain.crt");

CertPath certPath = certificateFactory.generateCertPath(certificateInputStream);
```
