# java

## Basic usage

```bash
java some.package.MyClass
java -jar my-packaged.jar
```

## Description

`java` is the executable that starts up a **Java virtual machine**. The initial entry point into the program is the `main()` method that exists on the named class, and that has the signature:

```java
public static void main(String[] args);
```

This method is run on the **single application thread** that is created by the JVM startup. The JVM process will exit once this method returns (and any additional nondaemon application threads that were started have terminated).

> 启动的是单个class文件

If the form takes **a JAR file** rather than **a class** (the executable jar form), **the JAR file** must contain **a piece of metadata** that tells the JVM which class to start from.

> 启动的是Jar文件

This bit of **metadata** is the `Main-Class` : attribute, and it is contained in the `MANI‐FEST.MF` file in the `META-INF/` directory. See the description of the `jar` tool for more details.


## Common switches

- `-cp <classpath>`: Define the classpath to read from.
- `-jar`: Run an executable JAR (see the entry for jar).

- `-X, -?, -help`: Provide help about the java executable and its switches.
- `-D<property=value>`: Sets a **Java system property** that can be retrieved by the Java program. Any number of such properties can be specified this way.

performance

- `-client`, `-server`: Select a HotSpot JIT compiler.

heap size

- `-Xms<size>`: Set the minimum committed heap size for the JVM.
- `-Xmx<size>`: Set the maximum committed heap size for the JVM.

agent

- `-agentlib:<agent>`, `-agentpath:<path to agent>`: Specify a JVM Tooling Interface (JVMTI) agent to attach to the process being started. Agents are typically used for **instrumentation** or **monitoring**.

- `-agentlib:<libname>[=<options>]`: load native agent library `<libname>`, e.g. `-agentlib:hprof`
- `-agentpath:<pathname>[=<options>]`: load native agent library by full pathname
- `-javaagent:<jarpath>[=<options>]`: load Java programming language agent, see `java.lang.instrument`


debug

- `-verbose`: Generate additional output, sometimes useful for debugging.

我发现，即写一个Hello World程序，使用`java -verbose Main`也会输出非常详细的加载信息。

```txt
[liusen@Fedora operator]$ java -verbose Addition 
[Opened /usr/local/jdk1.8.0_181/jre/lib/rt.jar]
[Loaded java.lang.Object from /usr/local/jdk1.8.0_181/jre/lib/rt.jar]
[Loaded java.io.Serializable from /usr/local/jdk1.8.0_181/jre/lib/rt.jar]
[Loaded java.lang.Comparable from /usr/local/jdk1.8.0_181/jre/lib/rt.jar]
```

## JIT compilers

The HotSpot VM contains **two** separate JIT compilers—known as **the client** (or `C1`) compiler and **the server** (or `C2`) compiler. These were designed for different purposes, with **the client** compiler offering more predictable(可预见的；可预料的；意料之中的) performance and **quicker startup**, at the expense of **not performing aggressive code optimization**.

> HotSpot VM提供了两种JIT compilers： the client compiler 和 the server compiler 。

Traditionally, **the JIT compiler** that a Java process used was chosen at process startup via the `-client` or `-server` switch. 

> 两个参数：`-client`和`-server`

However, as **hardware** advances have made **compilation** ever cheaper, a new possibility has become available—to use **the client compiler** early on, while the Java process is warming up, and then to switch to the high-performance optimizations available in **the server compiler** when they are available. This scheme is called **Tiered Compilation**, and it is the default in Java 8.
Most processes will no longer need explicit `-client` or `-server` switches.

> 这段理解三个意思：  
> （1）hardware让compilation更加cheap  
> （2）一种可行的方案：开始时，用client compiler；预热后，用server compiler。这种方案称之为Tiered Compilation。  
> （3）大部分的程序不需要明确的指定`-client`和`-server`。

## nonstandard switches

Switches that start with `-X` were intended to be **nonstandard switches**. However, the trend has been to **standardize a number of these switches** (particularly `-Xms` and `-Xmx`). In parallel, Java versions have introduced an increasing number of `-XX:` switches. These were intended to be **experimental** and **not for production use**. However, as the implementations have stabilized, some of these switches are now suitable for some advanced users (even in production deployments).



