
### 1.2.8 `new`, & `<init>` & `<clinit>`

There’s a keyword `new` in **Java** but there’s also **a bytecode instruction** called `new`. When we created an instance of `MovingAverage` class:

```java
MovingAverage app = new MovingAverage();
```

the compiler generated a sequence of opcodes that you can recognize as a pattern:

```txt
0: new           #2                  // class lsieun/MovingAverage
3: dup
4: invokespecial #3                  // Method lsieun/MovingAverage."<init>":()V
```

When you see `new`, `dup` and `invokespecial` instructions together it must ring a bell – **this is the class instance creation!**

Why three instructions instead of one, you ask? The `new` instruction **creates the object but it doesn’t call the constructor**, for that, the `invokespecial` instruction is called: it invokes the mysterious method called , which is actually **the constructor**. The `dup` instruction is used to **duplicate the value on the top of the stack**. As the constructor call doesn’t return a value, after calling the method on the object the object will be initialized but the stack will be empty so we wouldn’t be able to do anything with the object after it was initialized. This is why we need to duplicate the reference in advance so that after the constructor returns we can assign the object instance into a local variable or a field. Hence, the next instruction is usually one of the following:

- `astore {N}` or `astore_{N}` – to **assign** to a local variable, where `{N}` is the position of the variable in local variables table.
- `putfield` – to assign the value to **an instance field**
- `putstatic` – to assign the value to **a static field**

While a call to is a constructor invocation, there’s another similar method, which is invoked even earlier. This is **the static initializer** name of the class. The static initializer of the class isn’t called directly, but triggered by one of the following instructions: `new`, `getstatic`, `putstatic` or `invokestatic`. That said, if you create a new instance of the class, access **a static field** or call **a static method**, the static initializer is triggered.

### 1.2.9 Method invocation and parameter passing

We have touched the method invocation topic slightly in the class instantiation part: the method was invoked via `invokespecial` instruction which resulted in **the constructor call**. However, there are a few more instructions that are used for method invocation:

- `invokestatic`, as the name implies, this is **a call to a static method of the class**. This is the fastest method invocation instruction there is.
- `invokespecial` instruction is used to call **the constructor**, as we know. But it also is used to call **private methods of the same class** and **accessible methods of the super class**.
- `invokevirtual` is used to call **public**, **protected** and **package private methods** if the target object of **a concrete type**.
- `invokeinterface` is used when the method to be called belongs to **an interface**.

**So what is the difference between `invokevirtual` and `invokeinterface`?**

Indeed a very good question. Why do we need both `invokevirtual` and `invokeinterface`, why not to use `invokevirtual` for everything? The `interface` methods are `public` methods after all! Well, this is all due to **the optimization for method invocations**. First, the method has to be resolved, and then we can call it. For instance, with `invokestatic` we know exactly which method to call: it is `static`, it belongs to **only one class**. With `invokespecial` we have **a limited list of options** – it is easier to choose the resolution strategy, meaning the runtime will find the required method faster.

With `invokevirtual` and `invokeinterface` the difference is not that obvious however. Let me offer a very simplistic explanation of the difference for these two instructions. Imagine that **the class definition** contains **a table of method definitions** and **all the methods** are **numbered by position**. Here’s an example: class `A`, with methods `method1` and `method2` and a subclass `B`, which derives `method1`, overrides `method2`, and declares new `method3`. Note that `method1` and `method2` are at the same indexed position both in class `A` and class `B`.

```txt
class A
    1: method1
    2: method2

class B extends A
    1: method1
    2: method2
    3: method3
```

This means that if the runtime wants to call `method2`, it will always find it at position `2`. Now, to explain the essential difference between `invokevirtual` and `invokeinterface` let’s make class `B` to extend interface `X` which declares a new method:

```txt
class B extends A implements X
    1: method1
    2: method2
    3: method3
    4: methodX
```

The new method is at index `4` and it looks like it is not any different from `method3` in this situation. However, what if theres another class, `C`, which also implements the interface but does not belong to the same hierarchy as `A` and `B`:

```txt
class C implements  X 
    1: methodC
    2: methodX
```

The `interface` method is **not at the same position** as in class `B` any more and this is why runtime is more restricted in respect to `invokinterface`, meaning it can **do less assumptions** in method resolution process than with `invokevirtual`.

