# Types

The Java programming language is a **statically typed language**, which means that every variable and every expression has a type that is known at compile time.

这段的重点是说“Java语言是statically typed language”。换句话说，可以在compile的时候，就可以知道每一个variable和每一个expression的type。

The Java programming language is also a **strongly typed language**, because types limit the values that a variable can hold or that an expression can produce, limit the operations supported on those values, and determine the meaning of the operations. Strong static typing helps detect errors at compile time.

这段的重点是说“Java语言是strongly typed language”。从两个方面来理解：value set和operations。

- （1） type限制了value的取值范围。或者说，type限制了expression的结果值的范围
- （2） type限制了operations的数量，并决定了每一个operation到底代表什么作用

The types of the Java programming language are divided into two categories: **primitive types** and **reference types**. The **primitive types** are the `boolean` type and the numeric types. The numeric types are the integral types `byte`, `short`, `int`, `long`, and `char`, and the floating-point types `float` and `double`. The **reference types** are **class types**, **interface types**, and **array types**. There is also a special **null type**.<sub>前半段主要讲Java语言中“类型”的分类，后半段主要是讲reference type的"value"到底是什么</sub> An object is a dynamically created instance of a class type or a dynamically created array. The values of a reference type are references to objects. All objects, including arrays, support the methods of class `Object`. String literals are represented by `String` objects.

- Java Type
  - primitive types
    - boolean type
    - numberic type
      - integral types: `byte`, `short`, `int`, `long`
      - floating-point types: `float`, `double`
  - reference types
    - class types
    - interface types
    - array types
    - null type

In practice, the programmer can ignore **the null type** and just pretend that `null` is merely a special literal that can be of **any reference type**.

## Reference

- [Chapter 4. Types, Values, and Variables](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se8/html/jls-4.html)
