# Type System

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. Type Errors](#1-type-errors)
- [2. Type Checking](#2-type-checking)
  - [2.1. Static type checking](#21-static-type-checking)
  - [2.2. Dynamic type checking and runtime type information](#22-dynamic-type-checking-and-runtime-type-information)
  - [2.3. Combining static and dynamic type checking](#23-combining-static-and-dynamic-type-checking)
- [3. Type Safety](#3-type-safety)
  - [How Java Enforces Type Safety](#how-java-enforces-type-safety)
  - [Type Confusion](#type-confusion)
  - [Not Type Safe](#not-type-safe)
- [4. Program Correctness](#4-program-correctness)
- [5. Reference](#5-reference)

<!-- /TOC -->

简单来说，一个完整的“事物”，它是由两部分组成的。第一部分是，能够看的见的部分；第二部分是，看不见的部分；这两个部分共同组成一个完整的“事物”。

拿“宇宙”来举例，九大行星、太阳系、银河系和其他星系，是这个“宇宙”中能够看的见的那一部分；而九大行星围绕太阳运转的规则，却是看不见的那一部分，是“宇宙”的运行规则。

再回到Type System这个概念中，无论是primitive type(int, long等)，还是Reference Type(Class, Interface)，都是属于Type的，这是我们能够看到的部分。除此之外，还需要一套规则来保证Type System能够正常运转的规则。

## 1. Type Errors

A **type error** is an unintended condition which might manifest in multiple stages of a program's development. Thus a facility for detection of the error is needed in the **type system**.

**Type safety** contributes to **program correctness**, but might only guarantee correctness at the cost of making the **type checking** itself an undecidable problem. In a **type system** with **automated type checking** a program may prove to **run incorrectly** yet be **safely typed**, and produce no compiler errors. **Division by zero** is an unsafe and incorrect operation, but a type checker running at compile time only does not scan for division by zero in most languages, and then it is left as a runtime error. To prove the absence of these more-general-than-types defects, other kinds of **formal methods**, collectively known as **program analyses**, are in common use. Alternatively, a sufficiently expressive type system, such as in dependently typed languages, can prevent these kinds of errors (for example, expressing the type of non-zero numbers). In addition **software testing** is an empirical method for finding errors that the type checker cannot detect.

## 2. Type Checking

The process of verifying and enforcing the constraints of types—**type checking**—may occur either at **compile-time** (a static check) or at **run-time**. If a language specification requires its typing rules strongly (i.e., more or less allowing only those automatic type conversions that do not lose information), one can refer to the process as strongly typed, if not, as weakly typed. The terms are not usually used in a strict sense.

### 2.1. Static type checking

**Static type checking** is the process of verifying the **type safety** of a program based on analysis of a program's text (source code). If a program passes a static type checker, then the program is guaranteed to satisfy some set of type safety properties for all possible inputs.

Static type checking can be considered a limited form of program verification. If a compiler can prove that a program is well-typed, then it does not need to emit dynamic safety checks, allowing the resulting compiled binary to run faster and to be smaller.

Static type checking for Turing-complete languages is inherently conservative. That is, if a type system is both sound (meaning that it rejects all incorrect programs) and decidable (meaning that it is possible to write an algorithm that determines whether a program is well-typed), then it must be incomplete (meaning there are correct programs, which are also rejected, even though they do not encounter runtime errors).[6] For example, consider a program containing the code:

if <complex test> then <do something> else <signal that there is a type error>

Even if the expression <complex test> always evaluates to true at run-time, most type checkers will reject the program as ill-typed, because it is difficult (if not impossible) for a static analyzer to determine that the else branch will not be taken.[7] Conversely, a static type checker will quickly detect type errors in rarely used code paths. Without static type checking, even code coverage tests with 100% coverage may be unable to find such type errors. The tests may fail to detect such type errors, because the combination of all places where values are created and all places where a certain value is used must be taken into account.

A number of useful and common programming language features cannot be checked statically, such as downcasting. Thus, **many languages will have both static and dynamic type checking**; **the static type checker verifies what it can**, and **dynamic checks verify the rest**.

Many languages with static type checking provide a way to bypass the type checker. Some languages allow programmers to choose between static and dynamic type safety. For example, C# distinguishes between statically-typed and dynamically-typed variables. Uses of the former are checked statically, whereas uses of the latter are checked dynamically. Other languages allow writing code that is not type-safe; for example, in C, programmers can freely cast a value between any two types that have the same size, effectively subverting the type concept.

### 2.2. Dynamic type checking and runtime type information

**Dynamic type checking** is the process of verifying the **type safety** of a program at **runtime**. Implementations of dynamically type-checked languages generally associate each runtime object with a `type` tag (i.e., a reference to a type) containing its type information. This **runtime type information (RTTI)** can also be used to implement *dynamic dispatch*, *late binding*, *downcasting*, *reflection*, and similar features.

Most type-safe languages include some form of dynamic type checking, even if they also have a static type checker. The reason for this is that many useful features or properties are difficult or impossible to verify statically. For example, suppose that a program defines two types, A and B, where B is a subtype of A. If the program tries to convert a value of type A to type B, which is known as *downcasting*, then the operation is legal only if the value being converted is actually a value of type B. Thus, a dynamic check is needed to verify that the operation is safe. This requirement is one of the criticisms of downcasting.

By definition, **dynamic type checking** may cause a program to fail at runtime. In some programming languages, it is possible to anticipate and recover from these failures. In others, type-checking errors are considered fatal.

Programming languages that include dynamic type checking but not static type checking are often called "dynamically typed programming languages".

### 2.3. Combining static and dynamic type checking

Some languages allow **both static and dynamic typing**. For example, **Java** and some other ostensibly statically typed languages support downcasting types to their subtypes, querying an object to discover its dynamic type, and other type operations that depend on runtime type information. Another example is C++ RTTI. More generally, most programming languages include mechanisms for dispatching over different 'kinds' of data, such as disjoint unions, runtime polymorphism, and variant types. Even when not interacting with type annotations or type checking, such mechanisms are materially similar to dynamic typing implementations.

Objects in object-oriented languages are usually accessed by a reference whose static target type (or manifest type) is equal to either the object's run-time type (its latent type) or a supertype thereof. This is conformant with the Liskov substitution principle, which states that all operations performed on an instance of a given type can also be performed on an instance of a subtype. This concept is also known as subsumption or subtype polymorphism. In some languages subtypes may also possess covariant or contravariant return types and argument types respectively.

Certain languages, for example Clojure, Common Lisp, or Cython are dynamically type-checked by default, but allow programs to opt into static type checking by providing optional annotations. One reason to use such hints would be to optimize the performance of critical sections of a program. This is formalized by gradual typing. The programming environment DrRacket, a pedagogic environment based on Lisp, and a precursor of the language Racket is also soft-typed.

Conversely, as of version 4.0, the C# language provides a way to indicate that a variable should not be statically type-checked. A variable whose type is dynamic will not be subject to static type checking. Instead, the program relies on runtime type information to determine how the variable may be used.

## 3. Type Safety

A language is type-safe if the only operations that can be performed on data in the language are those sanctioned by the type of the data.

**Type safety** means that a program cannot perform an operation on an object unless that operation is valid for that object.

Java is not type-safe, though it was intended to be.

A Java object may read and modify fields (and invoke methods) private to another object. It may read and modify internal Java Virtual Machine (JVM) data-structures. It may invoke operations not even defined for that object, causing completely unpredictable results, including JVM crashes (core dumps). Thus Java security, which depends strongly on type-safety, is completely compromised.

### How Java Enforces Type Safety

Every Java object is stored in some region of the computer's memory. Java labels every object by putting a `class` tag next to the object. One simple way to enforce type safety is to check the `class` tag of the object before every operation on the object. This will help make sure the object's class allows the operation. This approach is called **dynamic type checking**.

Though **dynamic type checking** works, it is **inefficient**. The more time a system spends checking `class` tags, the more slowly programs run. To improve performance, Java uses **static type checking** whenever it can. Java looks at the program before it is run and carefully tries to determine which way the tag checking operations will come out. This is more complicated, but more efficient than dynamic type checking. If Java can figure out that a particular tag checking operation will always succeed, then there is no reason to do it more than once. The check can safely be removed, speeding up the program. Similarly, if Java can figure out that a particular tag checking operation will always fail, then it can generate an error before the program is even loaded.

The designers of Java carefully crafted the Java language and byte code formats to facilitate **static type checking**. The **byte code Verifier** is a very effective static type checker, eliminating almost all of the tag checking operations from Java programs. The result is a type safe program that runs quite efficiently.

**Static type checking** has other advantages, too. For example, static type checking can be done at **compile time**, thus informing the software developer of any type errors before the code is shipped.

### Type Confusion

There is only one problem with Java's **static type checking strategy**: It's **complicated**. Though Java's designers obviously got the overall strategy right, there are a great many details that have to be perfect for type safety to be enforced. An error in any of these details would be a tiny but crucial hole in Java's type safety enforcement dike(堤防). A clever cracker who finds such a hole can launch a type confusion attack.

### Not Type Safe

When a program is considered not to be type-safe, there is no single standard course of action that happens upon encountering a type error. Many Programming languages throw type errors which halts the run-time or compilation of the program, depending on the language type — static or dynamically typed.

## 4. Program Correctness

## 5. Reference

- [Java is not type-safe](https://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/courses/629/papers/Saraswat-javabug.html) 这篇文章，我只读了三小段，水平有限，读不明白
- [Section 10 -- Type Safety](http://www.securingjava.com/chapter-two/chapter-two-10.html) 这个文章，我以前读过，觉得受益良多
