# Statically and Dynamically typed languages

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. Statically typed languages](#1-statically-typed-languages)
  - [1.1. when, change type, declare](#11-when-change-type-declare)
  - [1.2. Advantages and Disadvantages](#12-advantages-and-disadvantages)
  - [1.3. Example Languages](#13-example-languages)
- [2. Dynamically typed languages](#2-dynamically-typed-languages)
  - [2.1. when, change type, declare](#21-when-change-type-declare)
  - [2.2. Advantages and Disadvantages](#22-advantages-and-disadvantages)
  - [2.3. Example Languages](#23-example-languages)
- [3. Reference](#3-reference)

<!-- /TOC -->

## 1. Statically typed languages

### 1.1. when, change type, declare

A language is statically-typed if the type of a variable is known at **compile-time** instead of at run-time.<sub>在compile-time，知道variable的类型</sub>

In Statically typed languages, once a variable has been declared with a type, it cannot ever be assigned to some other variable of different type and doing so will raise a type error at compile-time.<sub>一旦variable确定了类型，就不能再更改了</sub>

Statically-typed languages require you to **declare the data types** of your variables before you use them<sub>需要先声明variable的类型</sub>

```java
// Java Example
int data;
data = 50;
data = “Hello World!”; // causes an compilation error
```

### 1.2. Advantages and Disadvantages

Advantages:

- A large class of errors are caught in the early stage of development process. 错误发现越早越好
- Static typing usually results in compiled code that executes more quickly because when the compiler knows the exact data types that are in use, it can produce optimized machine code (i.e. faster and/or using less memory). 对代码进行优化

Disadvantages:

- There is only one problem with Java's **static type checking strategy**: It's **complicated**. Though Java's designers obviously got the overall strategy right, there are a great many details that have to be perfect for type safety to be enforced. An error in any of these details would be a tiny but crucial hole in Java's type safety enforcement dike(堤防). A clever cracker who finds such a hole can launch a type confusion attack.

### 1.3. Example Languages

Common examples of statically-typed languages include **Java**, C, C++, FORTRAN, Pascal and Scala.

## 2. Dynamically typed languages

### 2.1. when, change type, declare

A language is dynamically-typed if the type of a variable is checked during **run-time**.<sub>在runtime时，可以知道variable的类型</sub>

In Dynamically typed languages, variables are bound to objects at run-time by means of assignment statements, and it is possible to bind the same variables to objects of different types during the execution of the program.<sub>对于variable来说，它的类型是可以变化的</sub>

Dynamically-typed languages **do not require you to declare the data types** of your variables before you use them<sub>不需要先声明variable的类型</sub>

```python
# Python Example
data = 10;
data = “Hello World!”; // no error caused
```

### 2.2. Advantages and Disadvantages

Advantages:

- Implementations of dynamically type-checked languages generally associate each run time object with a type tag (i.e., a reference to a type) containing its type information. This run-time type information (RTTI) can also be used to implement dynamic dispatch, late binding, down-casting, reflection, and similar features.
- The absence of a separate compilation step means that you don’t have to wait for the compiler to finish before you can test your code changes. This makes the debug cycle much shorter and less cumbersome.

Disadvantages:

- Dynamic type checking typically results in less optimized code than static type checking. It also includes the possibility of run time type errors and forces run time checks to occur for every execution of the program (instead of just at compile-time).

### 2.3. Example Languages

Common examples of dynamically-typed languages includes JavaScript, Objective-C, PHP, Python, Ruby, Lisp, and Tcl.

## 3. Reference

- [Magic lies here - Statically vs Dynamically Typed Languages](https://android.jlelse.eu/magic-lies-here-statically-typed-vs-dynamically-typed-languages-d151c7f95e2b)
