# jar

## Basic usage

```bash
jar cvf my.jar someDir/
```

## Description

The `jar` utility is used to manipulate **J**ava **Ar**chive (`.jar`) files. These are `ZIP` format files that contain **Java classes**, **additional resources**, and **(usually) metadata**. 

The tool has **five** major modes of operation

- Create, 
- Update, 
- Index, 
- List, and 
- Extract

on a `.jar` file.

> 2018.11.19 （1）Create和Extract是一对：Create是将多个文件压缩生成一个jar文件；而Extract是将一个jar文件解压成多个文件。（2）Update是对jar文件进行更新，List是展示jar文件中包含文件的列表。（3）至于Index，我此刻并不了解它的作用

These are controlled by passing **a command option character** (**not a switch**) to `jar`. **Only one command character** can be specified, but **optional modifier characters** can
also be used.

> 2018.11.19 这里区分了两个概念：option和switch。


## Command options

- `c`: Create a new archive
- `u`: Update archive
- `i`: Index an archive
- `t`: List an archive
- `x`: Extract an archive

## Modifiers

- `v`: Verbose mode
- `f`: Operate on a named file, rather than standard input
- `0`: Store, but do not compress, files added to the archive
- `m`: Add the contents of the specified file to the jar metadata manifest
- `e`: Make this jar executable, with the specified class as the entry point

## `jar` and `tar`

The syntax of the `jar` command is intentionally very similar to that of the Unix `tar` command. This similarity is the reason why `jar` uses **command options**, rather than **switches** (as the other Java platform commands do).

## manifest

When creating a `.jar` file, the `jar` tool will automatically add a directory called `META-INF` that contains a file called `MANIFEST.MF`—this is metadata in the form of headers paired with values. By default, `MANIFEST.MF` contains just two headers:

```txt
Manifest-Version: 1.0
Created-By: 1.8.0 (Oracle Corporation)
```

By using the `m` option, **additional metadata** can be added into `MANIFEST.MF` at JAR creation time. One frequently added piece is the `Main-Class:` attribute, which indicates **the entry point** into the application contained in the JAR. 

```bash
jar -cvfm <jar-name> <manifest-file> <other-files>

jar -cvfm hello.jar abc.mf Main.class
```

A JAR with a specified `Main-Class:` can be directly executed by the `JVM`, via `java -jar`.

The addition of the `Main-Class:` attribute is so common that jar has the `e` option to create it directly in `MANIFEST.MF`, rather than having to create a separate text file for this purpose.

