# How to generate a MANIFEST & JAR using Maven

URL: https://udaniweeraratne.wordpress.com/2016/01/21/how-to-generate-a-manifest-using-maven/

Hello everyone, hope you had a pretty good time writing your own javaagent. If you did, then you may have wondered about ways you can do the following stuff.

- Generate agent.jar (第一个问题：生成JAR包)
- Avoid ClassNotFoundException and NoClassDeffFoundError (第二个问题：缺少依赖的JAR包)


But, what if we can easily generate our `agent.jar` with just **a single build command**? What if it includes all the .class files you need to include, plus the MANIFEST file under correct folder structure?

Well here is the good news. Including the `maven-jar-plugin` as follows will do it like magic. Only thing you have to do is including following section under `<build><plugins></plugins></build>` tags in your `pom.xml` file.

```xml
<plugin>
   <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
   <artifactId>maven-jar-plugin</artifactId>
   <version>2.4</version>
   <configuration>
      <archive>
         <manifest>
            <addClasspath>true</addClasspath>
            <classpathPrefix>lib/</classpathPrefix>
            <addDefaultImplementationEntries>true</addDefaultImplementationEntries>
            <addDefaultSpecificationEntries>true</addDefaultSpecificationEntries>
         </manifest>
         <manifestEntries>
            <Premain-Class>lsieun.javaagent.SimpleAgent</Premain-Class>
            <Can-Redefine-Classes>false</Can-Redefine-Classes>
            <Can-Retransform-Classes>true</Can-Retransform-Classes>
         </manifestEntries>
       </archive>
   </configuration>
</plugin>
```

The above plugin addresses **two main problems**(第一，生成JAR包，第二，添加依赖JAR包) faced by those who work with a javaagent. I have already listed them at the beginning of the post. Let’s have an overall idea about what this plugin does.

- `<Premain-Class>` tag  provides **fully qualified class name of the class** with `premain` method. Likewise `<Main-Class>` can be used to set **the main class** as the initiating point of the jar.

- `<Can-Redefine-Classes>` and `<Can-Retransform-Classes>` allows user to specify some parameters required by the agent. Setting these values are optional, because their default values won’t conflict with our basic javaagent.

- `<addClasspath>` : add all the names of jars downloaded, as dependencies of the agent.

- `<classpathPrefix>` : add the given prefix (Eg: `lib/`) before all jar names included in the MANIFEST. This can be used as the path of each jar during the runtime of the agent.
Once you have set all correct values, you are all set to make a MANIFEST and include it in the JAR during the build time of your agent. ‘mvn clean install’ will do the magic for you. 

