# How to copy maven dependencies

URL: https://udaniweeraratne.wordpress.com/2016/02/07/how-to-copy-maven-dependencies/

Suppose you are maintaining a code in a version control system. Your project involves quite lot of dependencies. General approach is including them in the pom file along with their version numbers, artifactId, and groupId. When someone take a pull or clone from your repository and build the project, maven will download all the required dependencies to a default target folder (`~/.m2`).

But, suppose you need these dependencies included in your classpath as it is required in javaagent. Then what you should do? **How are you going to copy them? Are you going to copy all the required dependencies one by one?** Should you ask the user to download and copy all of them? That’s not going to be a pleasant experience to whoever is going to use it. Specially if it contain lot of dependencies as it is mentioned earlier.

What if we can make **maven** to **copy all the required jars** to **a specific folder** given by us, while we build the project using `mvn clean install`? Then it will be just copying that one folder to wherever the location we want or setting the classpath to that folder. That is where the following code segment comes in handy.

```xml
<plugin>
  <groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
  <artifactId>maven-dependency-plugin</artifactId>
  <executions>
     <execution>
        <id>javaagent-copy-dependencies</id>
        <phase>package</phase>
        <goals>
           <goal>copy-dependencies</goal>
        </goals>
        <configuration>
           <outputDirectory>${project.build.directory}/lib</outputDirectory>
           <overWriteReleases>false</overWriteReleases>
           <overWriteSnapshots>false</overWriteSnapshots>
           <overWriteIfNewer>true</overWriteIfNewer>
        </configuration>
      </execution>
    </executions>
</plugin>
```

The `copy-dependencies` option of `maven-dependency-plugin` allows you to copy dependencies listed in the pom to a given folder. Whenever you build the project, it’ll **copy dependencies** to **the given location** from the default folder. Therefore, changing version numbers or adding newer dependencies wouldn’t be much of a headache. All you have to do is update the pom to newer values and rebuild the project.

The `<outputDirectory>` specifies the location where you want to make the folder and copy the dependencies. Above example makes a folder called `lib` in your project’s  `${project.build.directory}`, which is `target` folder. Well given above is just an initial introduction. 

Well, now you know **how to make maven to copy all your dependencies to a certain folder** while you build the product.

