# How to generate JNI based method Signature?

The term **method signature** is not new to any of the developers. The moment you hear the term **method signature** you will be thinking about something like follows.

```java
public void print();
```

When using a general programming language as Java, C++, Python we start writing a method using **a method signature**, which includes **a method name**, **return type** and **a parameter list** wrapped in round brackets `()`.

But when you are working with Javassist, the byte code instrumentation framework, you may want to tell the JVM to access **a specific method** (`CtMethod`) of **a given Class** (`CtClass`) during the run time. 

Suppose we have a simple test class, `TestSignature` with three overloaded methods (named as `testMethod`).

TestSignature.java

```java
public class TestSignature {
    public void testMethod() {
        //
    }

    public String testMethod(String x) {
        return x;
    }

    public void testMethod(String x, int y) {
        //
    }


    public int testMethod(String[] x) {
        return x.length;
    }
}

```

A call to `getDeclaredMethods()` in Javassist API with the method name as `testMethod` will return all the methods with the given name as a `CtMethod` array. In order to pick the right method you have to go an extra mile by iterating through the array. But, if you know the **JNI** (**Java Native Interface**) type signature of the method, you can get the exact method with single call to `getMethod()` in Javassist API.

The `JNI` type method signature can be derived by following the naming convention below. The set of special notations used are,

| Type Signature | Java Type |
| :------------: | :-------: |
|       Z        |  Boolean  |
|       B        |   byte    |
|       C        |   char    |
|       S        |   short   |
|       I        |    int    |
|       J        |   long    |
|       F        |   float   |
|       D        |  double   |
|       V        |   void    |
|       L        |  object   |
|       [        |   array   |


**A method signature** derived using these notations is written in **the reverse order** compared to **the normal format**. It starts with **the list of parameters enclosed in round brackets** and ends with **the return type**. For example, `(parameter_types) return_type`. It does not contain the method name. Some special points to note are,

- If the `parameter`/`return value` is an **object**, use **the fully qualified class name** start with ‘`L`‘ and end with **a semicolon** (`;`). E.g: `Ljava/lang/String;`
- If the `parameter`/`return value` is an **array**, start with **a square bracket** ‘`[`‘ which is followed by the above notations or the fully qualified name. E.g: `[I` or `[java/lang/String;`

If you follow these instructions you can derive the signature of any given method easily as shown below.

```
public void testMethod(String name)
    (Ljava/lang/String;)V   // derived signature
```

But still, **there is a chance of making a mistake** while trying to convert it to JNI format. Therefore, **Java has provided a tool** to **automatically generate signatures of all the methods in a given class** using a single command. The `javap` tool will make your life lot easier with `javap -s` command followed by **the fully qualified class name**.

Go to the folder which contains your `.class` files and run the command `javap -s test.signature.TestSignature`.


Note:

- If you are going to **the exact location of the `.class` file**, use the class name instead of using the fully qualified name
- You may use the above command if you have only the `.class` files too. But you **should** have **all the depending classes** used by **the respective class**, in order to generate the signature.



