# Best and Worst Exception Handling Practices

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. Best Exception Handling Practices](#1-best-exception-handling-practices)
  - [1.1. Avoid Exceptional Conditions](#11-avoid-exceptional-conditions)
  - [1.2. Use try-with-resources](#12-use-try-with-resources)
  - [1.3. Close resources in try-catch-finally](#13-close-resources-in-try-catch-finally)
- [2. Worst Exception Handling Practices](#2-worst-exception-handling-practices)
  - [2.1. Swallowing Exceptions](#21-swallowing-exceptions)
  - [2.2. Return in a finally Block](#22-return-in-a-finally-block)
  - [2.3. Throwing in a finally Block](#23-throwing-in-a-finally-block)
  - [2.4. Simulating a goto statement](#24-simulating-a-goto-statement)
  - [2.5. Logging and Throwing](#25-logging-and-throwing)
  - [2.6. Catching Exception or Throwable](#26-catching-exception-or-throwable)

<!-- /TOC -->

## 1. Best Exception Handling Practices

### 1.1. Avoid Exceptional Conditions

Sometimes, by using simple checks, we can avoid an exception forming altogether:

```java
public Employee getEmployee(int i) {
    Employee[] employeeArray = {new Employee("David"), new Employee("Rhett"), new Employee("Scott")};

    if(i >= employeeArray.length) {
        System.out.println("Index is too high!");
        return null;
    } else {
        System.out.println("Employee found: " + employeeArray[i].name);
        return employeeArray[i];
    }
  }
}
```

Calling this method with a valid index would result in:

```txt
Employee found: Scott
```

But calling this method with an index that's out of bounds would result in:

```txt
Index is too high!
```

In any case, even though the `index` is too high, the offending line of code will not execute and **no exception will arise**.

### 1.2. Use try-with-resources

As already mentioned above, it's always better to use the newer, more concise and cleaner approach when working with resources.

### 1.3. Close resources in try-catch-finally

If you're not utilizing the previous advice for any reason, at least make sure to close the resources manually in the `finally` block.

I won't include a code example for this since both have already been provided, for brevity.

## 2. Worst Exception Handling Practices

### 2.1. Swallowing Exceptions

If your intention is to simply satisfy the compiler, you can easily do so by swallowing the exception:

```java
public void parseFile(String filePath) {
    try {
        // some code that forms an exception
    } catch (Exception ex) {}
}
```

**Swallowing an exception** refers to **the act of catching an exception and not fixing the issue**.

This way, the compiler is satisfied since the exception is caught, but all the relevant useful information that we could extract from the exception for debugging is lost, and we didn't do anything to recover from this exceptional condition.

Another very common practice is to simply print out the stack trace of the exception:

```java
public void parseFile(String filePath) {
    try {
        // some code that forms an exception
    } catch(Exception ex) {
        ex.printStackTrace();
    }
}
```

This approach forms an illusion of handling. Yes, while it is better than simply ignoring the exception, by printing out the relevant information, this doesn't handle the exceptional condition any more than ignoring it does.

### 2.2. Return in a finally Block

According to the JLS (Java Language Specification):

```txt
If execution of the try block completes abruptly for any other reason R, then the finally block is executed, and then there is a choice.
```

So, in the terminology of the documentation, if the `finally` block completes normally, then the `try` statement completes abruptly for reason `R`.

If the `finally` block completes abruptly for reason `S`, then the `try` statement completes abruptly for reason `S` (and reason `R` is discarded).

In essence, by abruptly returning from a `finally` block, the JVM will drop the exception from the `try` block and all valuable data from it will be lost:

```java
public String doSomething() {
    String name = "David";
    try {
        throw new IOException();
    } finally {
        return name;
    }
}
```

In this case, even though the `try` block throws a new `IOException`, we use `return` in the `finally` block, ending it abruptly. This causes the `try` block to end abruptly due to the `return` statement, and not the `IOException`, essentially dropping the exception in the process.

### 2.3. Throwing in a finally Block

Very similar to the previous example, using `throw` in a `finally` block will drop the exception from the **try-catch** block:

```java
public static String doSomething() {
    try {
        // some code that forms an exception
    } catch(IOException io) {
        throw io;
    } finally {
        throw new MyException();
    }
}
```

In this example, the `MyException` thrown inside the `finally` block will overshadow the exception thrown by the `catch` block and all valuable information will be dropped.

### 2.4. Simulating a goto statement

**Critical thinking and creative ways to find a solution to a problem is a good trait, but some solutions, as creative as they are, are ineffective and redundant**.

Java doesn't have a goto statement like some other languages but rather uses labels to jump around the code:

```java
public void jumpForward() {
    label: {
        someMethod();
        if (condition) break label;
        otherMethod();
    }
}
```

Yet still some people use exceptions to simulate them:

```java
public void jumpForward() {
    try {
      // some code 1
      throw new MyException();
      // some code 2
    } catch(MyException ex) {
      // some code 3
    }
}
```

Using exceptions for this purpose is ineffective and slow. Exceptions are designed for exceptional code and should be used for exceptional code.

### 2.5. Logging and Throwing

When trying to debug a piece of code and finding out what's happening, don't both **log** and **throw the exception**:

```java
public static String readFirstLine(String url) throws FileNotFoundException {
    try {
        Scanner scanner = new Scanner(new File(url));
        return scanner.nextLine();
    } catch(FileNotFoundException ex) {
        LOGGER.error("FileNotFoundException: ", ex);
        throw ex;
    }
}
```

Doing this is redundant and will simply result in a bunch of log messages which aren't really needed. The amount of text will reduce the visibility of the logs.

### 2.6. Catching Exception or Throwable

Why don't we simply catch `Exception` or `Throwable`, if it catches all subclasses?

Unless there's a good, specific reason to catch any of these two, it's generally not advised to do so.

Catching `Exception` will catch both checked and runtime exceptions. Runtime exceptions represent problems that are a direct result of a programming problem, and as such shouldn't be caught since it can't be reasonably expected to recover from them or handle them.

Catching `Throwable` will catch everything. This includes all errors, which aren't actually meant to be caught in any way.
