# Type Erasure

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. Limitation](#1-limitation)
- [2. How does the compiler translate Java generics?](#2-how-does-the-compiler-translate-java-generics)
- [3. What is type erasure?](#3-what-is-type-erasure)
- [5. Why does the compiler add casts when it translates generics?](#5-why-does-the-compiler-add-casts-when-it-translates-generics)
- [6. How does type erasure work when a type parameter has several bounds?](#6-how-does-type-erasure-work-when-a-type-parameter-has-several-bounds)

<!-- /TOC -->

We know that the Java platform has a strong preference for **backward compatibility**. The addition of generics in Java 5 was another example of where **backward compatibility** was an issue for a new language feature.

**The central question** was how to make a type system that allowed older, nongeneric collection classes to be used alongside with newer, generic collections. The design decision was to achieve this by the use of casts:

```java
List someThings = getSomeThings();
// Unsafe cast, but we know that the
// contents of someThings are really strings
List<String> myStrings = (List<String>)someThings;
```

This means that `List` and `List<String>` are compatible as types, at least at some level. Java achieves this compatibility by **type erasure**. This means that **generic type parameters** are only visible at **compile time**—they are stripped out by `javac` and are not reflected in the **bytecode**.

**The mechanism of type erasure** gives rise to a difference in the type system seen by `javac` and that seen by the **JVM**.

## 1. Limitation

Type erasure also prohibits some other definitions, which would otherwise seem legal. In this code, we want to count the orders as represented in two slightly different data structures:

```java
// Won't compile
interface OrderCounter {
    // Name maps to list of order numbers
    int totalOrders(Map<String, List<String>> orders);
    // Name maps to total orders made so far
    int totalOrders(Map<String, Integer> orders);
}
```

This seems like perfectly legal Java code, but it will not compile. The issue is that although the two methods seem like normal overloads, after **type erasure**, the signature of both methods becomes:

```java
int totalOrders(Map);
```

All that is left after type erasure is the raw type of the container—in this case, `Map`. The runtime would be unable to distinguish between the methods by signature, and so the language specification makes this syntax illegal.

## 2. How does the compiler translate Java generics?

**By creating one unique byte code representation of each generic type (or method) and mapping all instantiations of the generic type (or method) to this unique representation**.

The Java compiler is responsible for translating Java source code that contains definitions and usages of generic types and methods into Java byte code that the virtual machine can interpret. How does that translation work?

A compiler that must translate a generic type or method (in any language, not just Java) has in principle **two choices**:

- **Code specialization**. The compiler generates a new representation for every instantiation of a generic type or method. For instance, the compiler would generate code for a list of integers and additional, different code for a list of strings, a list of dates, a list of buffers, and so on.
- **Code sharing**. The compiler generates code for only one representation of a generic type or method and maps all the instantiations of the generic type or method to the unique representation, performing type checks and type conversions where needed.

Code specialization is the approach that C++ takes for its templates:

The C++ compiler generates executable code for every instantiation of a template. The downside of code specialization of generic types is its potential for **code bloat**. A list of integers and a list of strings would be represented in the executable code as two different types. Note that code bloat is not inevitable in C++ and can generally be avoided by an experienced programmer.

**Code specialization is particularly wasteful** in cases where the elements in a collection are references (or pointers), because all references (or pointers) are of the same size and internally have the same representation. There is no need for generation of mostly identical code for a list of references to integers and a list of references to strings. Both lists could internally be represented by a list of references to any type of object. The compiler just has to add a couple of casts whenever these references are passed in and out of the generic type or method. Since in Java most types are reference types, it deems natural that Java chooses code sharing as its technique for translation of generic types and methods.

The Java compiler applies the **code sharing** technique and creates one unique byte code representation of each generic type (or method). The various instantiations of the generic type (or method) are mapped onto this unique representation by a technique that is called **type erasure**.

## 3. What is type erasure?

**A process that maps a parameterized type (or method) to its unique byte code representation by eliding type parameters and arguments**.

The compiler generates only one byte code representation of a generic type or method and maps all the instantiations of the generic type or method to the unique representation. This mapping is performed by **type erasure**. **The essence of type erasure** is the removal of all information that is related to **type parameters** and **type arguments**. In addition, the compiler adds **type checks** and **type conversions** where needed and inserts synthetic **bridge methods** if necessary. It is important to understand type erasure because certain effects related to Java generics are difficult to understand without a proper understanding of the translation process.

The type erasure process can be imagined as a translation from generic Java source code back into regular Java code. In reality the compiler is more efficient and translates directly to Java byte code. But the byte code created is equivalent to the non-generic Java code you will be seeing in the subsequent examples.

The steps performed during type erasure include:

- **Eliding type parameters**. When the compiler finds the definition of a generic type or method, it removes all occurrences of the **type parameters** and replaces them by their leftmost bound, or type `Object` if no bound had been specified.
- **Eliding type arguments**. When the compiler finds a paramterized type, i.e. **an instantiation of a generic type**, then it removes the **type arguments**. For instance, the types `List<String>`, `Set<Long>`, and `Map<String,?>` are translated to `List`, `Set` and `Map` respectively.

[示例在这里，因为它有颜色标识，这里没有办法体现出来](http://www.angelikalanger.com/GenericsFAQ/FAQSections/TechnicalDetails.html#FAQ101)


## 5. Why does the compiler add casts when it translates generics?

**Because the return type of methods of a parameterized type might change as a side effect of type erasure**.

During **type erasure** the compiler replaces **type parameters** by the leftmost bound, or type `Object` if no bound was specified. This means that methods whose return type is the **type parameter** would return a reference that is either the leftmost bound or `Object`, instead of the more specific type that was specified in the parameterized type and that the caller expects. A cast is need from the leftmost bound or `Object` down to the more specific type.

[示例在这里，因为它有颜色标识，这里没有办法体现出来](http://www.angelikalanger.com/GenericsFAQ/FAQSections/TechnicalDetails.html#FAQ104)

让我联想到了《Lost And Found》，曾经遗失的东西，在某个时间段又再次被发现。

## 6. How does type erasure work when a type parameter has several bounds?

**The compiler adds casts as needed**.

In the process of type erasure the compiler replaces type parameters by their leftmost bound, or type `Object` if no bound was specified. How does that work if a type parameter has several bounds?

Example (before type erasure):

```java
interface Runnable {
  void run();
}
interface Callable<V> {
  V call();
}
class X<T extends Callable<Long> & Runnable> {
  private T task1, task2;
  ...
  public void doAction() {
    task1.run();
    Long result = task2.call();
  }
}
```

Example (after type erasure):

```java
interface Runnable {
  void run();
}
interface Callable {
  Object call();
}
class X {
  private Callable task1, task2;
  ...
  public void doAction() {
    ( (Runnable) task1).run();
    Long result = (Long) task2.call();
  }
}
```

The type parameter `T` is replaced by the bound `Callable`, which means that both fields are held as references of type `Callable`.  Methods of the leftmost bound (which is `Callable` in our example) can be called directly. For invocation of methods of the other bounds (`Runnable` in our example) the compiler adds a cast to the respective bound type, so that the methods are accessible. The inserted cast cannot fail at runtime with a `ClassCastException` because the compiler already made sure at compile-time that both fields are references to objects of a type that is within both bounds.

In general, casts silently added by the compiler are guaranteed not to raise a `ClassCastException` if the program was compiled without warnings. This is the type-safety guarantee.
