# Wildcards

A **parameterized type**, such as `ArrayList<T>`, is not instantiable; we cannot create instances of them. This is because `<T>` is just a type parameter—merely a placeholder for a genuine type. It is only when we provide a concrete value for the type parameter (e.g., `ArrayList<String>`) that the type becomes fully formed and we can create objects of that type.

This poses a problem if the type that we want to work with is unknown at compile time. Fortunately, the Java type system is able to accommodate this concept. It does so by having an explicit concept of the unknown type—which is represented as `<?>`. This is the simplest example of Java’s **wildcard types**.

We can write expressions that involve the unknown type:

```java
ArrayList<?> mysteryList = unknownList();
Object o = mysteryList.get(0);
```

This is perfectly valid Java—`ArrayList<?>` is a complete type that a variable can have, unlike `ArrayList<T>`. We don’t know anything about `mysteryList`’s payload type, but that may not be a problem for our code.

For example, when we get an item out of `mysteryList`, it has a completely unknown type. However, we can be sure that the object is assignable to `Object`—because all valid values of a generic type parameter are reference types and all reference values can be assigned to a variable of type `Object`.

On the other hand, when we’re working with the unknown type, there are some limitations on its use in user code. For example, this code will not compile:

```java
// Won't compile
mysteryList.add(new Object());
```

The reason for this is simple—we don’t know what the payload type of `mysteryList` is! For example, if `mysteryList` was really a instance of `ArrayList<String>`, then we wouldn’t expect to be able to put an `Object` into it.

The only value that we know we can always insert into a container is `null`—as we know that `null` is a possible value for any reference type. This isn’t that useful, and for this reason, the Java language spec also rules out instantiating a container object with the unknown type as payload, for example:

```java
// Won't compile
List<?> unknowns = new ArrayList<?>();
```

**The unknown type** may seem to be of limited utility, but one very important use for it is as a starting point for resolving the covariance question. We can use the unknown type if we want to have a subtyping relationship for containers, like this:

```java
// Perfectly legal
List<?> objects = new ArrayList<String>();
```

This means that `List<String>` is a subtype of `List<?>`—although when we use an assignment like the preceding one, we have lost some type information. For example, the return type of `get()` is now effectively `Object`.

Note: `List<?>` is not a subtype of any `List<T>`, for any value of `T`.

**The unknown type** sometimes confuses developers—provoking questions like, “Why wouldn’t you just use `Object` instead of **the unknown type**?” However, as we’ve seen, the need to have subtyping relationships between **generic types** essentially requires us to have a notion of **the unknown type**.

## BOUNDED WILDCARDS

In fact, Java’s **wildcard types** extend beyond just **the unknown type**, with the concept of **bounded wildcards**.

They are used to describe **the inheritance hierarchy** of a **mostly unknown type**—effectively making statements like, for example, “I don’t know anything about this type, except that it must implement `List`.”

This would be written as `? extends List` in the **type parameter**. This provides a useful lifeline to the programmer—instead of being restricted to the totally unknown type, she knows that at least the capabilities of the type bound are available.

The `extends` keyword is always used, regardless of whether the constraining type is a `class` or `interface` type.

This is an example of a concept called **type variance**, which is the general theory of how inheritance between **container types** relates to the inheritance of **their payload types**.

- **Type covariance**: This means that **the container types** have **the same relationship** to each other as **the payload types** do. This is expressed using the `extends` keyword.
- **Type contravariance**: This means that **the container types** have **the inverse relationship** to each other as **the payload types**. This is expressed using the `super` keyword.

These ideas tend to appear when discussing container types. For example, if `Cat` extends `Pet`, then `List<Cat>` is a subtype of `List<? extends Pet>`, and so:

```java
List<Cat> cats = new ArrayList<Cat>();
List<? extends Pet> pets = cats;
```

However, this differs from the array case, because type safety is maintained in the following way:

```java
pets.add(new Cat()); // won't compile
pets.add(new Pet()); // won't compile
cats.add(new Cat());
```

The compiler cannot prove that the storage pointed at by `pets` is capable of storing a `Cat` and so it rejects the call to `add()`. However, as `cats` definitely points at a list of `Cat` objects, then it must be acceptable to add a new one to the list.

As a result, it is very commonplace to see these types of generic constructions with types that act as **producers** or **consumers** of payload types.

For example, when the `List` is acting as a producer of `Pet` objects, then the appropriate keyword is `extends`.

```java
Pet p = pets.get(0);
```

Note that for the producer case, **the payload type** appears as the return type of the producer method.

For **a container type** that is acting purely as a **consumer** of instances of a type, we would use the `super` keyword, and we would expect to see **the payload type** as the type of a method argument.

This is codified in the **Producer Extends**, **Consumer Super** (`PECS`) principle coined by Joshua Bloch.
