# Generic Methods

A **generic method** is a method that is able to take instances of any reference type.

```java
// Note that this class is not generic
public class Utils
    public static <T> T comma(T a, T b) {
        return a;
    }
}
```

## What is a generic method?

**A method with type parameters**.

Not only types can be generic, but methods can be generic, too. **Static and non-static methods** as well as **constructors** can have type parameters. The syntax for declaration of the formal type parameters is similar to the syntax for generic types. The type parameter section is **delimited by angle brackets** and appears **before the method's return type**. Its syntax and meaning is identical to the type parameter list of a generic type.

Here is the example of a generic `max` method that computes the greatest value in a collection of elements of an unknown type `A`.

Example (of a generic method):

```java
class Collections {
  public static <A extends Comparable<A>> A max(Collection<A> xs) {
    Iterator<A> xi = xs.iterator();
    A w = xi.next();
    while (xi.hasNext()) {
      A x = xi.next();
      if (w.compareTo(x) < 0) w = x;
    }
    return w;
  }
}
```

The `max` method has one type parameter, named `A`. It is a place holder for the element type of the collection that the method works on. The type parameter has a bound; it must be a type `A` that is a subtype of `Comparable<A>`, i.e., a type that can be compared to elements of itself.

## How do I invoke a generic method?

**Usually by calling it. Type arguments for generic methods need not be provided explicitly; they are almost always automatically inferred**.

Generic methods are invoked like regular non-generic methods. The type parameters are inferred from the invocation context.

Example (of invocation of a generic method; taken from the preceding item):

```java
class Collections {
  public static <A extends Comparable<A>> A max (Collection<A> xs) {
    Iterator<A> xi = xs.iterator();
    A w = xi. next();
    while (xi.hasNext()) {
      A x = xi.next();
      if (w.compareTo(x) < 0) w = x;
    }
    return w;
  }
}

final class Test {
  public static void main (String[] args) {
    LinkedList<Long> list = new LinkedList<Long>();
    list.add(0L);
    list.add(1L);
    Long y = Collections.max(list);
  }
}
```

In our example, the compiler would automatically invoke an instantiation of the `max` method with the type argument `Long`, that is, the formal type parameter `A` is replaced by type `Long`. **Note that we do not have to explicitly specify the type argument. The compiler automatically infers the type argument by taking a look at the type of the arguments provided to the method invocation**. The compiler finds that a `Collection<A>` is asked for and that a `LinkedList<Long>` is provided.  From this information the compiler concludes at compile time that `A` must be replaced by `Long`.
