# Method Handles

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. MethodType](#1-methodtype)
- [2. Method Lookup](#2-method-lookup)
- [3. Invoking Method Handles](#3-invoking-method-handles)

<!-- /TOC -->

In Java 7, a brand new mechanism for introspection and method access was introduced. This was originally designed for use with dynamic languages, which may need to participate in method dispatch decisions at runtime. To support this at the JVM level, the new `invokedynamic` bytecode was introduced. This bytecode was not used by Java 7 itself, but with the advent of Java 8, it was extensively used in both lambda expressions and the Nashorn JavaScript implementation.<sub>在Java 7中产生，在Java 8中强大</sub>

Even without `invokedynamic`, the new Method Handles API is comparable in power to many aspects of **the Reflection API**—and can be cleaner and conceptually simpler to use, even standalone. It can be thought of as Reflection done in a safer, more modern way.

## 1. MethodType

In Reflection, method signatures are represented as `Class[]`. This is quite cumbersome. By contrast, method handles rely on `MethodType` objects. These are a typesafe and object­ oriented way to represent the type signature of a method.<sub>这里主要讲了对数据类型的依赖，以前的Reflection API依赖于`Class[]`，现在的method handles依赖的是MethodType</sub>

They include the **return type** and **argument types**, but not the **receiver type** or **name of the method**. The name is not present, as this allows any method of the correct signature to be bound to any name (as per the functional interface behavior of lambda expressions).<sub>这里说明了MethodType中包含了什么：返回类型和参数类型。</sub>

```java
// 这是使用Reflection API时，代码的写法是这样的：
// Example应该就是receiver type，而publicSum就是name of the method
// int.class, double.class是参数类型
Method sumInstanceMethod = Example.class.getMethod("publicSum", int.class, double.class);
```

**A type signature for a method** is represented as an immutable instance of `MethodType`, as acquired from the factory method `MethodType.methodType()`.<sub>上面讲述了MethodType如何好，这里就讲了MethodType是如何创建的</sub> For example:

```java
// 示例一：无参数，只有返回值String
// toString()
MethodType m2Str = MethodType.methodType(String.class);

// 示例二：有一个参数，有返回值Integer
// Integer.parseInt(): int parseInt(String s)
MethodType mtParseInt = MethodType.methodType(Integer.class, String.class);

// 示例三：有四个参数，有返回值Class
// defineClass() from ClassLoader: Class<?> defineClass(String name, byte[] b, int off, int len)
MethodType mtdefClz = MethodType.methodType(Class.class, String.class, byte[].class, int.class, int.class);
```

相应的`MethodType.methodType`分别有如下定义：

```java
public static MethodType methodType(Class<?> rtype)
public static MethodType methodType(Class<?> rtype, Class<?> ptype0)
public static MethodType methodType(Class<?> rtype, Class<?> ptype0, Class<?>... ptypes)
```

This single piece of the puzzle provides significant gains over Reflection, as it makes **method signatures** significantly easier to represent and discuss. The next step is to **acquire a handle on a method**. This is achieved by a lookup process.

## 2. Method Lookup

Method lookup queries are performed on **the class where a method is defined**<sub>要在某个类上进行查找</sub>, and are dependent on **the context that they are executed from**<sub>依赖一定的上下文环境</sub>. In this example, we can see that when we attempt to look up the protected `Class::defineClass()` method from a general lookup context, we fail to resolve it with an `IllegalAccessException`, as the protected method is not accessible:

```java
import java.lang.invoke.MethodHandle;
import java.lang.invoke.MethodHandles;
import java.lang.invoke.MethodHandles.Lookup;
import java.lang.invoke.MethodType;

public class HelloWorld {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Lookup l = MethodHandles.lookup();
        lookupDefineClass(l);
    }

    public static void lookupDefineClass(Lookup l) {
        MethodType mt = MethodType.methodType(Class.class,
                String.class, byte[].class, int.class, int.class);
        try {
            MethodHandle mh = l.findVirtual(ClassLoader.class, "defineClass", mt);
            System.out.println(mh);
        } catch (NoSuchMethodException | IllegalAccessException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```

We always need to call `MethodHandles.lookup()`—this gives us a lookup context object based on the currently executing method.<sub>这里是依赖的上下文 环境</sub>

`Lookup` objects have several methods (which all start with `find`) declared on them for method resolution. These include `findVirtual()`, `findConstructor()`, and `findStatic()`.<sub>这里说明Lookup有哪些方法</sub>

One big difference between the **Reflection** and **Method Handles APIs** is **access control**. A Lookup object will only return methods that are accessible to the context where the lookup was created—and there is no way to subvert(颠覆；暗中破坏) this (no equivalent of Reflection’s `setAccessible()` hack).<sub>优点：安全</sub>

Method handles therefore always comply with the security manager, even when the equivalent reflective code does not. They are access­ checked at the point where the lookup context is constructed—the lookup object will not return handles to any methods to which it does not have proper access.<sub>优点：安全</sub>

The lookup object, or method handles derived from it, can be returned to other contexts, including ones where access to the method would no longer be possible. Under those circumstances, the handle is still executable—access control is checked at lookup time, as we can see in this example:<sub>下面的方法，就可以正常执行</sub>

```java
import java.lang.invoke.MethodHandles;
import java.lang.invoke.MethodHandles.Lookup;

public class SneakyLoader extends ClassLoader {
    public SneakyLoader() {
        super(SneakyLoader.class.getClassLoader());
    }
    public Lookup getLookup() {
        return MethodHandles.lookup();
    }
}

SneakyLoader snLdr = new SneakyLoader();
Lookup l = snLdr.getLookup();
lookupDefineClass(l);
```

With a `Lookup` object, we’re able to produce method handles to any method we have access to. We can also produce a way of accessing fields that may not have a method that gives access. The `findGetter()` and `findSetter()` methods on `Lookup` produce method handles that can read or update fields as needed.

## 3. Invoking Method Handles

**A method handle represents the ability to call a method**. They are strongly typed and as type safe as possible. Instances are all of some subclass of `java.lang.invoke.MethodHandle`, which is a class that needs special treatment from the JVM.

There are two ways to invoke a method handle—`invoke()` and `invokeExact()`. Both of these take **the receiver** and **call arguments** as parameters. `invokeExact()` tries to call the method handle directly as is, whereas `invoke()` will massage call arguments if needed.

In general, `invoke()` performs an `asType()` conversion if necessary—this converts arguments according to these rules:

- A primitive argument will be boxed if required.
- A boxed primitive will be unboxed if required.
- Primitives will be widened is necessary.
- A `void` return type will be massaged to `0` or `null`, depending on whether the expected return was primitive or of reference type.
- `null` values are passed through, regardless of static type.

With these potential conversions in place, invocation looks like this:

```java
import java.lang.invoke.MethodHandle;
import java.lang.invoke.MethodHandles;
import java.lang.invoke.MethodType;

public class HelloWorld {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        Object rcvr = "a";
        try {
            MethodType mt = MethodType.methodType(int.class);
            MethodHandles.Lookup l = MethodHandles.lookup();
            MethodHandle mh = l.findVirtual(rcvr.getClass(), "hashCode", mt);
            int ret;
            try {
                ret = (int) mh.invoke(rcvr);
                System.out.println(ret); // 97
            } catch (Throwable t) {
                t.printStackTrace();
            }
        } catch (IllegalArgumentException |
                NoSuchMethodException | SecurityException e) {
            e.printStackTrace();
        } catch (IllegalAccessException x) {
            x.printStackTrace();
        }
    }
}
```

Method handles provide a clearer and more coherent way to access the same dynamic programming capabilities as Reflection. In addition, they are designed to work well with the low­ level execution model of the JVM and thus hold out **the promise of much better performance** than Reflection can provide.
