# Java Cipher

URL: http://tutorials.jenkov.com/java-cryptography/cipher.html

The Java `Cipher` (`javax.crypto.Cipher`) class represents an encryption algorithm. The term **Cipher** is standard term for **an encryption algorithm** in the world of cryptography. That is why the Java class is called `Cipher` and not e.g. Encrypter / Decrypter or something else.

You can use a `Cipher` instance to **encrypt** and **decrypt** data in Java. This Java Cipher tutorial will explain how the Cipher class of the Java Cryptography API works.

## 1. Creating a Cipher

Before you can use a Java Cipher you just create an instance of the `Cipher` class. You create a `Cipher` instance by calling its `getInstance()` method with **a parameter** telling **what type of encryption algorithm** you want to use. Here is an example of creating a Java Cipher instance:

```java
Cipher cipher = Cipher.getInstance("AES");
```

This example creates a `Cipher` instance using **the encryption algorithm** called `AES`.

## 2. Cipher Modes

Some **encryption algorithms** can work in **different modes**. **An encryption mode** specifies details about **how the algorithm should encrypt data**. Thus, **the encryption mode** impacts part of **the encryption algorithm**.

**The encryption modes** can sometimes be used with **multiple different encryption algorithms** - like a technique that is appended to the core encryption algorithm. That is why the **modes** are thought of as **separate** from the **encryption algorithms** themselves, and rather "add-ons" to the encryption algorithms. Here are some of the most wellknown **cipher modes**:

- ECB - Electronic Code Book
- CBC - Cipher Block Chaining
- CFB - Cipher Feedback
- OFB - Output Feedback
- CTR - Counter

When **instantiating a cipher** you can append its **mode** to the name of the encryption algorithm. For instance, to create an `AES` Cipher instance using **Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)** you use this code:

```java
Cipher cipher = Cipher.getInstance("AES/CBC/PKCS5Padding");
```

Since **Cipher Block Chaining** requires a "**padding scheme**" too, the **padding scheme** is appended in the end of the encryption algorithm name string.

Please keep in mind that **not** all **encryption algorithms** and **modes** are supported by **the default Java SDK cryptography provider**. You might need **an external provider** like **Bouncy Castle** installed to create your desired `Cipher` instance with the required **mode** and **padding scheme**.


## 3. Initializing a Cipher

Before you can use a `Cipher` instance you must **initialize** it. Initializing a Cipher is done by calling its `init()` method. The `init()` method takes **two parameters**:

- Encryption / decryption cipher operation mode.
- Encryption / decryption key.

Here is an example of initializing a `Cipher` instance in **encryption mode**:

```java
Key key = ... // get / create symmetric encryption key
cipher.init(Cipher.ENCRYPT_MODE, key);
```

Here is an example of initializing a `Cipher` instance in **decryption mode**:

```java
Key key = ... // get / create symmetric encryption key
cipher.init(Cipher.DECRYPT_MODE, key);
```

## 4. Encrypting and Decrypting Data

In order **encrypt** or **decrypt** data with a `Cipher` instance you call one of these **two methods**:

- `update()`
- `doFinal()`

There are several overridden versions of both `update()` and `doFinal()` which takes different parameters. I will cover the most commonly used versions here.

If you have to encrypt or decrypt **a single block of data**, just call the `doFinal()` with the data to **encrypt** or **decrypt**. Here is an encryption example:

```java
byte[] plainText  = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz".getBytes("UTF-8");
byte[] cipherText = cipher.doFinal(plainText);
```

The code actually looks pretty much the same in case of **decrypting data**. Just keep in mind that the `Cipher` instance must be **initialized** into **decryption mode**. Here is **how decrypting a single block of cipher text** looks:

```java
byte[] plainText = cipher.doFinal(cipherText);
```

If you have to encrypt or decrypt **multiple blocks of data**, e.g. **multiple blocks** from **a large file**, you call the `update()` once for **each block of data**, and finish with a call to `doFinal()` with the **last data block**. Here is an example of encrypting multiple blocks of data:

```java
byte[] data1 = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz".getBytes("UTF-8");
byte[] data2 = "zyxwvutsrqponmlkjihgfedcba".getBytes("UTF-8");
byte[] data3 = "01234567890123456789012345".getBytes("UTF-8");

byte[] cipherText1 = cipher.update(data1);
byte[] cipherText2 = cipher.update(data2);
byte[] cipherText3 = cipher.doFinal(data3);
```

The reason a call to `doFinal()` is needed for **the last block of data** is, that **some encryption algorithms** need to **pad the the data** to fit **a certain cipher block size** (e.g. an 8 byte boundary). But - we do not want to pad the intermediate blocks of data encrypted. Hence the calls to `update()` for **intermediate blocks of data**, and the call to `doFinal()` for **the last block of data**.

When decrypting multiple blocks of data you also call the Cipher `update()` method for **intermediate data blocks**, and the `doFinal()` method for **the last block**. Here is an example of **decrypting** multiple blocks of data with a Java Cipher instance:

```java
byte[] plainText1 = cipher.update(cipherText1);
byte[] plainText2 = cipher.update(cipherText2);
byte[] plainText3 = cipher.doFinal(cipherText3);
```

Again, the `Cipher` instance must be **initialized** into **decryption mode** for this example to work.


## 5. Encrypting / Decrypting Part of a Byte Array

The Java `Cipher` class encryption and decryption methods can **encrypt** or **decrypt** part of the data stored in **a byte array**. You simply pass an `offset` and `length` to the `update()` and / or `doFinal()` method. Here is an example:

```java
int offset = 10;
int length = 24;
byte[] cipherText = cipher.doFinal(data, offset, length);
```

This example will **encrypt** (or **decrypt**, depending on the **initialization** of the `Cipher`) from byte with index `8` and `24` bytes forward.

## 6. Encrypting / Decrypting Into an Existing Byte Array

All the encryption and decryption examples shown in this tutorial so far have been returning **the encrypted or decrypted data** in **a new byte array**. However, it is also possible to **encrypt or decrypt data** into **an existing byte array**. This can be useful to keep the number of created byte arrays down.

You can encrypt or decrypt **data** into **an existing byte array** by passing **the destination byte array** as parameter to the `update()` and / or `doFinal()` method. Here is an example:

```java
int offset = 10;
int length = 24;
byte[] dest = new byte[1024];
cipher.doFinal(data, offset, length, dest);
```

This example encrypts the data from the byte with index `10` and `24` bytes forward into the `dest` byte array from offset `0`. If you want to set **a different offset** for the `dest` byte array there is a version of `update()` and `doFinal()` which takes an `offset` parameter extra. Here is an example of calling the `doFinal()` method with an `offset` into the `dest` array:

```java
int offset = 10;
int length = 24;
byte[] dest = new byte[1024];
int destOffset = 12
cipher.doFinal(data, offset, length, dest, destOffset);
```

## 7. Reusing a Cipher Instance

**Initializing a Java Cipher instance is an expensive operation**. Therefore it is **a good idea** to reuse `Cipher` instances. Luckily, the `Cipher` class was designed with **reuse** in mind.

When you call the `doFinal()` method on a `Cipher` instance, the `Cipher` instance is returned to the **state** it had just after initialization. The `Cipher` instance can then be used to encrypt or decrypt more data again.

Here is an example of **reusing a Java `Cipher` instance**:

```java
Cipher cipher = Cipher.getInstance("AES");

Key key = ... // get / create symmetric encryption key
cipher.init(Cipher.ENCRYPT_MODE, key);

// (1) 第一次加密
byte[] data1 = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz".getBytes("UTF-8");
byte[] data2 = "zyxwvutsrqponmlkjihgfedcba".getBytes("UTF-8");

byte[] cipherText1 = cipher.update(data1);
byte[] cipherText2 = cipher.doFinal(data2);

// (2) 第二次加密
byte[] data3 = "01234567890123456789012345".getBytes("UTF-8");
byte[] cipherText3 = cipher.doFinal(data3);
```

First the `Cipher` instance is created and initialized, and then used to encrypt two blocks of coherent data. Notice the call to `update()` and then `doFinal()` for these two blocks of data. Now the `Cipher` instance can be used again to encrypt more data. This is done with the `doFinal()` call with the third data block. After this `doFinal()` call you can encrypt yet another block of data with the same Java `Cipher` instance.


