# Java Mac

The Java `Mac` (`javax.crypto.Mac` class can create a **Message Authentication Code (MAC)** from binary data. A **MAC** is a **message digest** which has been encrypted with **a secret key**. Only if you have **the secret key** can you verify the **MAC**.

## 1. Creating a Mac Instance

Before you can use the Java `Mac` class you must create a `Mac` instance. Creating a `Mac` instance is done using the `getInstance()` method. Here is a Java Mac instantiation example:

```java
Mac mac = Mac.getInstance("HmacSHA256");
```

**The String parameter** passed to the Mac `getInstance()` method contains **the name of the MAC algorithm** to use. In this case **the MAC algorithm** is `HmacSHA256`.

## 2. Initializing the Mac

Once created, the Java `Mac` instance must be **initialized**. You initialize the Mac instance by calling its `init()` method passing as parameter **the secret key** to be used by the `Mac` instance. Here is a Java Mac initialization example:

```java
byte[] keyBytes   = new byte[]{0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 ,9,10,11,12,13,14,15};
String algorithm  = "RawBytes";
SecretKeySpec key = new SecretKeySpec(keyBytes, algorithm);

mac.init(key);
```

The Mac `init()` method takes **a Key instance**. In this example a `SecretKeySpec` is used which implements the `Key` interface.


## 3. Calculating the MAC

Once the Java Mac instance is initialized you can start calculating MAC values with it. To calculate a MAC value you call the Mac `update()` or `doFinal()` method. If you only have **a single block of data** to calculate the MAC for, you can call `doFinal()` directly, like this:

```java
byte[] data  = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvxyz".getBytes("UTF-8");
byte[] macBytes = mac.doFinal(data);
```

If you have **multiple blocks of data** to calculate the MAC for, e.g. if you are reading a file block by block, then you must call the `update()` method with each block, and finish with a call to `doFinal()`. Here is an example:

```java
byte[] data  = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvxyz".getBytes("UTF-8");
byte[] data2 = "0123456789".getBytes("UTF-8");

mac.update(data);
mac.update(data2);

byte[] macBytes = mac.doFinal();
```

