# Java Signature

The Java `Signature` class (`java.security.Signature`) can create **a digital signature** for **binary data**. **A digital signature** is **a message digest** encrypted with **a private key** of **a private / public key pair**. Anyone in possession of **the public key** can verify **the digital signature**.


## 1. Creating a Signature Instance

Before you can use the Java `Signature` class you must create a `Signature` instance. You create a `Signature` instance by calling the static `getInstance()` method. Here is an example that creates a Java Signature instance:

```java
Signature signature = Signature.getInstance("SHA256WithDSA");
```

The String passed as parameter to the `getInstance()` method is **the name of the digital signature algorithm** to use.


## 2. Initializing the Signature Instance

Once you have created the Java Signature instance you need to **initialize** it before you can **use** it. You initialize a `Signature` instance by calling its `init()` method. Here is a Java Signature initialization example:

```java
SecureRandom secureRandom = new SecureRandom();
KeyPairGenerator keyPairGenerator = KeyPairGenerator.getInstance("DSA");
KeyPair keyPair = keyPairGenerator.generateKeyPair();

signature.initSign(keyPair.getPrivate(), secureRandom);
```

As you can see, the `Signature` instance is initialized with **the private key** of **a private / public key pair**, and a `SecureRandom` instance.


## 3. Creating the Digital Signature

When the `Signature` instance is **initialized** you can use it to **create** digital signatures. You create a digital signature by calling the `update()` method one or more times, finishing with a call to `sign()`. Here is an example of creating a digital signature for a block of binary data:

```java
byte[] data = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvxyz".getBytes("UTF-8");
signature.update(data);

byte[] digitalSignature = signature.sign();
```


## 4. Verifying the Digital Signature

If you want to **verify** a digital signature created by someone else, you must **initialize** a `Signature` instance into **verification mode** (instead of **signature mode**). Here is how initializing a `Signature` instance into **verification mode** looks:

```java
Signature signature = Signature.getInstance("SHA256WithDSA");

signature.initVerify(keyPair.getPublic());
```

Notice how the Java `Signature` instance is now initialized into **verification mode**, passing a **public key** of **a public / private key pair** as parameter.

Once **initialized** into **verification mode** you can use the `Signature` instance to verify a digital signature. Here is how verifying a digital signature looks:

```java
byte[] data2 = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvxyz".getBytes("UTF-8");
signature2.update(data2);

boolean verified = signature2.verify(digitalSignature);
```
