# Java KeyStore

The Java `KeyStore` is **a database** that can contain keys. A Java **KeyStore** is represented by the `KeyStore` (`java.security.KeyStore`) class. A **KeyStore** can be **written** to **disk** and **read** again. The **KeyStore** as a whole can be protected with a **password**, and **each key entry** in the KeyStore can be protected with its own password. This makes the `KeyStore` class a useful mechanism to handle encryption keys securely.

A `KeyStore` can hold the following types of keys:

- Private keys
- Public keys + certificates
- Secret keys

**Private and public keys** are used in **asymmetric encryption**. **A public key** can have **an associated certificate**. A **certificate** is **a document** that verifies the identity of the person, organization or device claiming to own the public key. A certificate is typically digitally signed by the verifying party as proof.

**Secret keys** are used in **symmetric encryption**. In many cases **symmetric keys** are negotiated when **a secure connection** is set up. Therefore you will more often be storing **public and private keys** in a **KeyStore** than **secret keys**.

## 1. Creating a KeyStore

You can create a Java `KeyStore` instance by calling its `getInstance()` method. Here is an example of creating a KeyStore instance:

```java
KeyStore keyStore = KeyStore.getInstance(KeyStore.getDefaultType());
```

This example creates a `KeyStore` instance of **Java's default type**. It is also possible to create other types of `KeyStore` instance by passing a different parameter to the `getInstance()` method. For instance, here is an example that creates a `PKCS12` type KeyStore:

```java
KeyStore keyStore = KeyStore.getInstance("PKCS12");
```

## 2. Loading the KeyStore

Before a `KeyStore` instance can be **used**, it must be **loaded**. `KeyStore` instances are often written to **disk** or other kinds of storage for later use. That is why the `KeyStore` class assumes that you must **read its data in** before you can **use** it. However, it is possible to **initialize an empty KeyStore instance** with no data, as you will see later.

Loading the KeyStore data from a **file** or **other storage** is done by calling the KeyStore `load()` method. The `load()` takes two parameters:

- An `InputStream` from which to load the `KeyStore` data.
- A `char[] (char array)` containing the **KeyStore password**.

Here is an example of loading a Java KeyStore:

```java
char[] keyStorePassword = "123abc".toCharArray();
try(InputStream keyStoreData = new FileInputStream("keystore.ks")){
    keyStore.load(keyStoreData, keyStorePassword);
}
```

This example loads **the KeyStore file** located in the `keystore.ks` file.

If you don't want to load any data into the KeyStore, just pass `null` for the `InputStream` parameter. Here is how loading an empty KeyStore looks:

```java
keyStore3.load(null, keyStorePassword);
```

You must always **load** the `KeyStore` instance, either with **data** or with `null`. Otherwise the KeyStore is **uninitialized**, and all calls to its methods will **throw an exception**.

## 3. Getting Keys

You can get the keys of a Java KeyStore instance via its `getEntry()` method. **A KeyStore entry** is mapped to **an alias** which identifies the key, and is protected with **a key password**. Thus, to access a key you must pass the **key alias** and **password** to the `getEntry()` method. Here is an example of accessing a key entry in a KeyStore instance:

```java
char[] keyPassword = "789xyz".toCharArray();
KeyStore.ProtectionParameter entryPassword =
        new KeyStore.PasswordProtection(keyPassword);

KeyStore.Entry keyEntry = keyStore3.getEntry("keyAlias", entryPassword);
```

If you know that the key entry you want to access is **a private key**, you can cast the `KeyStore.Entry` instance to a `KeyStore.PrivateKeyEntry`. Here is how that looks:

```java
KeyStore.PrivateKeyEntry privateKeyEntry = (KeyStore.PrivateKeyEntry)
        keyStore3.getEntry("keyAlias", entryPassword);
```

After casting to a `KeyStore.PrivateKeyEntry` you can access **the private key**, **certificate** and **certificate chain** via these methods:

- getPrivateKey()
- getCertificate()
- getCertificateChain()

## 4. Setting Keys

You can also set keys into a KeyStore instance. Here is an example of setting a secret key (symmetric key) into a KeyStore instance:

```java
SecretKey secretKey = getSecretKey();
KeyStore.SecretKeyEntry secretKeyEntry = new KeyStore.SecretKeyEntry(secretKey);

keyStore3.setEntry("keyAlias2", secretKeyEntry, entryPassword);
```

## 5. Storing the KeyStore

Sometimes you may want to store a `KeyStore` to **some storage** (disk, database etc.) so you can load it again another time. You store a KeyStore by calling the `store()` method. Here is an example of storing a KeyStore

```java
char[] keyStorePassword = "123abc".toCharArray();
try (FileOutputStream keyStoreOutputStream = new FileOutputStream("data/keystore.ks")) {
    keyStore3.store(keyStoreOutputStream, keyStorePassword);
}
```

