# Java Certificate

The Java `Certificate` class (`java.security.cert.Certificate`) represents **a cryptographic identity certificate**. A Java `Certificate` class instance contains **name** plus **other details of the entity** it identifies, plus possibly **a digital signature** from a **Certificate Authority (CA)**.

The Java `Certificate` class is an `abstract` class, so while you may use `Certificate` as **variable type**, your variable will always point to a subclass of `Certificate`.

The Java `Certificate` class has one subclass - the `X509Certificate` class. This class represents `an X.509 certificate` which is used as **identity certificate** in `HTTPS` and `TLS`.

## 1. Obtaining a Certificate Instance

You can obtain a `Certificate` instance in the following ways:

- From a `CertificateFactory`.
- From a `KeyStore`.

See these two tutorials for more information about obtaining a Certificate instance.

## 2. getEncoded()

The Java Certificate `getEncoded()` method returns an encoded version of the Certificate as **a byte array**. For instance, if the `Certificate` is an `X509Certificate` the returned byte array will contain an X.590 (ASN.1 DER) encoded version of the Certificate instance. Here is a getEncoded() example:

```java
byte[] encodedCertificate = certificate.getEncoded();
```

## 3. getPublicKey()

The Java Certificate `getPublicKey()` method returns the PublicKey of this Certificate instance. Here is a getPublicKey() example:

```java
PublicKey certificatePublicKey = certificate.getPublicKey();
```

## 4. getType()

The Java Certificate `getType()` method returns the type of the Certificate instance. Here is a getType() example:

```java
String certificateType = certificate.getType();
```

## 5. verify()

The Java Certificate class contains three `verify()` methods. These methods can be used to verify that the `Certificate` is really signed with the **private key** matching **the expected public key**. Here is a Java Certificate verify() example:

```java
// get expected public key from somewhere else (not Certificate instance !!)
PublicKey expectedPublicKey = ... ;

try{
    certificate.verify(expectedPublicKey);

} catch (InvalidKeyException e) {
    // certificate was not signed with given public key

} catch (NoSuchAlgorithmException |
         NoSuchProviderException |
         SignatureException |
         CertificateException e){
    // something else went wrong
}
```

The `verify()` method returns `void`. If the verification fails, an `InvalidKeyException` will be thrown. If no exception is thrown the Certificate instance can be considered verified.
